# VScanApp
System to scan and analyze vulnerabilities in a corporate network

Developed by Marcelo Martins Ferreira

     
The system is a desktop application based on Win Forms that uses the Nmap API, open source libraries that allow the scanning of corporate networks and the Internet to detect vulnerable ports on each computer, our implementation will use this API.

The Graphical User Interface (GUI) has a main scan module, one for maintenance, and one for configuration and one for reports to take a history of each scan to a corporate network and store this information in our SQL database.

The analysis of the information in the database will allow us to have a history of vulnerabilities that have been scanned and corrected, as well as to prevent possible attacks in the future.


This section describes the constraints in the system design: 

•	The system is limited to using Nmap libraries to scan in each IPV4 address of the corporate network.
•	The system will have the restriction of doing scans only to IPV4 addresses.
•	The system has the purpose of scanning and detecting possible vulnerabilities when reporting open ports in each device, it is not a function of the system to evaluate whether an open port constitutes a real threat or not, this must be determined by the company's security analyst using the report generated by the system.
•	The system must run as a desktop application for MS Windows using an Ethernet connection for higher performance, for these reasons the design will be done with this constraint in mind.


System Hardware Resources

•	Computer for the programmer with minimum requirements of 4 GB of Ram memory, dual 3.0GHz processor, 10MB Ethernet network connection, 500GB hard drive.
•	Additional computer that can be used as a server to install the SQL database manager with 8 GB of Ram memory, dual 3.0GHz processor, 10MB Ethernet network connection, 500GB hard drive.
•	Will be using a Dell Power Edge T330 running Windows Server 2012 and VMware Workstation Pro to create a corporate network with several virtual servers and workstations to simulate a corporate environment.

System Software Resources


•	Operating System Microsoft Windows 7 32bits / 64 bits or higher.
•	Database server SQL server 2014
•	SQL Server 2014 Management Studio
•	Microsoft Visual Studio 2015/2017 or higher
•	.NET framework libraries to use Visual C #
•	Libraries GNU de Nmap for .NET framework
•	MS Office 2016 or higher to read the reports.


Internal Communications 

The system will share information between the database in the SQL server and the form application using the ADO.NET directives to send and receive data, these will be updated from each module directly in the database.

This will allow the real-time interaction of the user interface with the other modules and the SQL database, this will guarantee the concurrence in the data but without creating erroneous or duplicate data, we also guarantee the connection and security to the data that conceals the chain of connection to the database that stores it in hard code and not in any txt configuration file.

